# ECE1512_2022W_ProjectRepo_FatemehPouryahya
## Visual Interpretation of Convolutional Neural Networks

This project  endeavors to generate  explanation  maps that  interpret the behavior of two models 
trained on different datasets. The first model is a very shallow CNN trained on “MNIST-1D” 
, a small-scale dataset prepared for generic array classification. The second model is a VGG-network 
trained on the “HMT” dataset utilized  for histopathologic  tissue classification. 

To carry out the project, a couple of attribution methods are considered: 
A perturbation-based metod, Semantic Input Sampling for Explanation (SISE)[[2]](#2). and
a backpropagation-based method, Integrated gradient  [[2]](#2).

# Datasets  
The  following  is  a  detailed  description  of  two  datasets  that  you  will  need  for  Project  A.  Both 
datasets can be found in the Project_A_Supp.zip file which has been uploaded to Quercus.  
 
## MNIST-1D:  
• Paper: Scaling down deep learning: https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.14439   
• GitHub link: https://github.com/greydanus/mnist1d  
• Description:  This dataset  is a 1-Dimensional  and low-memory  analogue  of the popular 
digit classification dataset, MNIST. In the same way as the MNIST dataset, the MNIST-
1D data are divided into 10 classes, each of which represents a digit between 0-9. Unlike 
MNIST,  each  example  in  MNIST-1D  train/test  data  is a  one-dimensional  sequence  of 
points generated by augmenting a 1-D template representing each of the digits by random 
padding,  random  translation,  adding  Gaussian  noise,  adding  a  constant  linear  signal 
analogous to shear in 2D images, and lastly, downsampling to 40 data points. 
• Availability: Publicly available (for academic purposes). 
• Resources needed: CPU  
• Data size 4000 train data + 1000 test data (partitioned by the dataset promoters). 
  
## HMT
• Paper: Multi-class texture analysis in colorectal cancer histology: 
https://www.nature.com/articles/srep27988   
• Description: This dataset was formed to elevate the performance of ML-based solutions 
in  “histopathological  tissue  classification.”  HMT  is  an  equally  balanced  dataset  that 
contains  images  extracted  from  10  independent  samples  of  colorectal  cancer  (CRC) 
primary tumors and divided into one of the following 8 classes: (a) tumor epithelium, (b) 
simple stroma, (c) complex stroma, (d) immune cell conglomerates, (e) debris and mucus,  
(f) mucosal glands, (g) adipose tissue, (h) background. 
• Availability: Publicly available (for academic purposes).  
• Resources needed: CPU  
• Data size: 4504 train images + 496 test images.  

# References
<a id="1">[1]</a> 
Sattarzadeh,  Sam,  Mahesh  Sudhakar,  Anthony  Lem,  Shervin  Mehryar,  Konstantinos  N. Plataniotis,  Jongseong  Jang,  Hyunwoo  Kim,  Yeonjeong  Jeong,  Sangmin  Lee,  and  Kyunghoon Bae.  "Explaining  convolutional  neural networks  through  attribution-based  input  sampling  and block-wise  feature  aggregation."  In 34th  AAAI Conference  on  Artificial  Intelligence.  2021. https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.00672 

<a id="2">[2]</a> 
Sundararajan, Mukund, Ankur Taly, and Qiqi Yan. "Axiomatic attribution for deep networks." 
In International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 3319-3328. PMLR, 2017. 
https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.01365  


